# kissing_problem_viewer
AlphaEvolve has found an improved solution to the kissing problem in 11 dimensions. (How many N-Balls can you put adjacent to an N-Ball without intersection). Matt Parker reported on this here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sGCmu7YKgPA
Neither Google not Matt had a visualization for this - so I threw one together here.

Basically, we define a view plane, and provide 10 sliders for rotating that view plane. Then we orthographically map each Ball center onto the view plane. We draw a cicle at each of these mapped centers. Plus we draw a red circle at the origin for the N-ball being kissed. To try and get some sense of depth, we define a camera view point which is also rotated by the sliders, and circles are scaled in inverse proportion to their distance to the view point.

## Rotation quirks
I'm not really sure what the best UI is for rotating an 11 dimensional object is. The sliders control rotation in a series of planes - which I think span all possible rotations, but I haven't proved it. Each plane of rotation is in dimensions (n, n+1), this means that in order for the Angle 10 slider to do something, there already needs to be some component of the viewing plane in dimension 10. Which is only true if the Angle 9 slider has rotated some component into dimension 10, which is only true if the Angle 8 slider has rotated some component into dimension 9 etc. This means the lower sliders will only do something if you've fiddled with all the sliders above them. And in general, they have a less noticable effect that the higher sliders. I'd be interested to know if there's a better way to parameterize a 11d rotation.
